Okay.
Well, I'm not going to tell you the incident because it would look trivial in terms of the 23 years since.
The fact is I just had what probably would have and should have been a routine complaint.
A service complaint?
Yeah, service complaint.
Access complaint?
Yeah, not even involving myself.
You know, I saw somebody else treated in a way that was, you know, not appropriate.
I'm a respectable citizen, you know, so I'll kind of take their part in complaining about it.
And that's kind of when I saw the attitude.
Yes, at that point, yes.
And it should have been handled just like a routine complaint.
Oh God, if you're impressed with me this far, let me tell the story.
Let me get a coffee and I'll tell you the story.
But in fact, I have the preferences again by saying I'm not obsessed by this thing that happened 23 years ago.
It was just the kind of key under the mattress that got me started.
I came in the right one day and I was researching through old newspapers for something historical.
I had an idea I was going to do an article for something.
So I went up to the microfiche and a couple of kids came up and they must have been about 10.
And I remember there were three of them.
And I was kind of casually dressed, so they kind of looked over my shoulder, and they said, hey, mister, what are you doing?
And I said, well, I'm looking for something.
And I showed them.
And actually, yeah, microphone.
And if you remember, all the newspapers are fascinating because they're so different from the way they are now.
The cartoons are all different.
In those days, they have pictures of all the brides, wedding announcements, things like that, which is really fascinating because you see a different world.
So I said to one of these kids, when were you born?
You know, it's really nice to look at a newspaper at the day you were born.
So I said, you know, just go this thing out and put the date and take it to that person over there and we'll set this thing out and we'll show the newspaper the day you were born.
And the kids thought that was cool.
The kids thought that was cool.
So a janitor comes along and unplugs their machine.
And I looked at this guy and he said, you're just playing.
He unplugged the kids' machine, not my machine.
I was back to doing my thing.
And so he unplugged the kids' machine and said,
that you're not serious, you're just playing.
Well, at that point, he's making an intellectual judgment.
He's making a judgment.
He was making a judgment.
about something I consider very basic, which is intellectual curiosity.
You know, you don't need a reason.
Well, I totally agree with you.
Guess what?
We don't have a topic here.
So at that point, I was pretty secure in my ground, right?
So I didn't see the librarian be called.
Well, I had the librarian call, assuming she was going to take our part, and she asked these kids to leave.
Yes, in a library-like way.
And actually, after the librarian, whoever that librarian was, I don't even know him, asked them to leave, they came up to me on their way out, and they said, hey, thank you very much, mister, and then left.
And, you know, my image was that these kids, you know, got the impression that they're not welcome to the library.
Maybe they never came back their whole lives.
Who knows?
I mean, they were only 10.
I think that's a great story.
With all due respect.
Right.
Well, I remember my first library experience with great funness in London.
Well, my image at the time was... These kids went in and they were denied.
That's right.
My image was that when I was 10, you know, somebody would have stuck up for me.
So I'm going to stick up for these kids, right?
Well, why didn't you want to tell?
That's a good story.
I like that story.
Well, let me tell you the rest of it.
But I mean, the reason is obvious.
It makes it look like I...
you know, 23 years of revenge or something.
It's actually much bigger, richer, intellectual stories than that.
Well, I see it is, because Porter suggested to me that something happened personal to you, and that's why you're only going to let it.
And, you know, I'm saying, what the hell happened?
You know what I'm saying?
Is it going to make life miserable for the city?
It's an intellectual issue.
Good.
So anyway, the really crucial thing was that I took this, and I was going to make a complaint about this.
I figured, well, there's a board of trustees, there's a commission, there's something.
I didn't even know what they were called.
I'll find out what they are, and I'll let them know that this is what's going on in the library.
So I go into the city librarian's office, and they tell me that there's no such thing as a library commission, and throw me out.
so you know and then it took me like two months to prove that there was a library commission and i had a right to go and you know and then the rest is history so anyway that's how it all started and so then as you started to go to these meetings you started to see the types of things yeah now is this this is something that you do as i mean it does consume a lot of the time
It changed a lot of my time, probably less than you imagined.
I mean, I work, I have hobbies, I read, you know, I'm taking up social dancing right now.
So, you know, I'm not obsessed.
Right, I mean, I'm not, I don't do it to the exclusion of other normal activities.
It's a major activity of mine, but it doesn't blot out the rest of my life.
And you keep doing it, Indiana, until... Until I become... Satisfied.
Well, I mean, actually, I've played around at various times with the idea of giving it up.
And in fact, I may give it up at some time.
I don't know exactly... You know, I would like to think that at some point I'll be like Malcolm Bagan.
I mean, everybody will agree with me so much that I'll become...
or a respectable citizen or, you know, just back in the mainstream again instead of the extreme radical.
People would, you know, I don't think a person with my views should be regarded as an extreme radical.
And that, in a sense, is the issue.
I mean, why have the issues gone so much in closer's direction that I'm an extreme radical?
You know, I mean, just if the system, that's what I'm really looking for, is I'm looking for the whole system to move back into what I would call the liberal direction.
I'm not sure I'm going to wait until that happens before I stop going.
And in fact, I've often thought that, you know, at some point I will probably, you know, say enough, enough is enough.
I don't know exactly when that will be.
I don't have any trigger for that, but, you know, I don't expect to go to my grave necessarily doing this.
Although 23 years is a damn long time.
You mind by asking how old you are?
I'm 50.
50?
I'll be 51 in November.
So I'm older than you are.
Yeah.
This started when you're, you know, not historically, in your 20s, or 30s.
Must have been 26.
I don't know.
Are you a professional man?
You said you're a consultant?
Yeah, I'm a consultant.
For lack of a better kind.
I'm sorry?
For lack of a better description.
How you from there?
Are you a West Coast person or just a French person?
Well, actually, I have to admit that I was an Army grad as a child.
And we ended up in San Diego.
So I spent my high school
and after years in San Diego.
Went to college in Portland, Oregon.
But I was born in Texas, and most of my childhood years were spent in Colorado, Oklahoma, Texas.
So did you use libraries as a kid?
Used a lot of libraries as a kid, yes.
Were you a reader, a serious reader?
Yeah, I consider myself a serious reader.
you'd be able to send me some materials?
I'll send you lots and lots of materials.
Well, I've got the impression that you want some background material on Furman and his, uh... Right.
And actually, some of the stuff in here is relatively specific as far as actual quotations, you know,
What was at issue in the suits or, you know, in italics?
But I'd kind of like to see the suits themselves.
Sure.
Even if they have the file numbers, too, the case numbers?
And where they were filed.
Were they all filed in the Cyber Court?
Oh, yeah.
The Superior Court of San Francisco.
And do you feel, have you, developed any allies at this?
Oh yeah, lots of allies.
Do you feel like you're a shovel and you don't want to get to tie it by yourself, so to speak?
Well, I mean, there was a long time when I was.
You were at Cassandra right there.
Yes.
And all of us.
For a long time.
But in fact, I've got lots of allies now.
I mean, there's a whole group of, uh, uh,
what we call the Ida Seeder group, and Andrea Grimes, and you know, people like that, and... Nick Baker.
Nick Baker, and... Ian Bowe, I think.
Ian Bowe.
I said, you know, the man, looking at the stuff now that he said, he was right.
Well, that's nice.
Nice to hear.
That's the claims on the record that you were ahead of your time, not preceding you.
That's very nice.
And where did you go to school in Portland?
Read.
Read, L-E-E-D?
Yes.
It's a very well-known school.
I write a weekly book on one of my papers, The Registered Guard of Eugene.
I've got 22 newspapers, so it's very weird.
That's right.
Do you think you pretty well covered it here?
Ah, yes.
Actually, I want to say again that there is one other thing I want to add.
The major double clause that had to do with all of this, the way all of this happened, is that when the Library Foundation came into existence, one of the confessions
that was granted, and it was a very solemn promise, and that was that the Library Foundation would go out of existence, would dissolve, after it had achieved its function.
And that was a very solemn promise.
It came out of the mouth of Margaret Stone, came out of the mouth of Steve Colbert, came out of the mouth of Ken Dowling, came out of the mouth of Martin Paley, and everybody else involved, was that the Library Foundation
It was supposed to self-destruct.
When it achieved its mission, it would dissolve itself.
And it's actually the betrayal of that promise which has been the cause of all the trouble.
And that was a major double-cross.
Like everybody involved.
How do you feel about these infinity rooms?
Oh, that's the process.
You know, that's an abomination.
I've never seen anything like that.
That's an abomination as far as I'm concerned.
It's an intellectual travesty as well as a social service travesty.
I mean, it's a public service travesty.
It's a travesty.
Because basically what it says is, you can determine the course of intellectual inquiry, of scholarly inquiry, by giving X and O dollars to establish the Filipino-American movement.
And as a matter of fact, if you go back to Steve Coulter's original presentations, he was very specific about
What he would probably now characterize as being applied for that was actually a very explicit threat, which is, fine, you want black history in the library?
Let's see the bucks.
You know, you want to see Filipino history in the library?
You know, because if you don't come up with a, you know, donation, there might not be black history in the library.
You know, he was very forthcoming about that.
You know, that's an abomination as far as I'm concerned.
And not only that, but there was supposed to be a labor affinity group for the labor movement.
Right.
Well, it didn't go anywhere.
Maybe the threat's been realized.
Is there less attention to labor?
Yes.
He says, man, who are you talking to today?
I said, with all due respect, you could name 20 games and you might be right on about 16.
Because I am trying to send everybody.
I said, so there's no, there's no whispering about it.
You know, I am a fair person.
But I'm not going to confirm for you who they are.
But you got to realize that back in these days,
They thought they were going to go, like, to the garment workers or the teachers and, you know, get them to come up with and go re-meet.
He wasn't talking about the librarians, you know.
But, you know, labor press history would be a labor press history.
Right, and it still is.
And it still is.
And the idea that, well, they didn't come through with the authority room, so... So we need to go re-meet.
Yeah.
and as i say in the early days they were very explicit about that okay so i think you know with that addition i think we have covered